the american civil liberties union said it has spent a little more than $ 1 million on television advertisements to oppose president trumps supreme court nominee , judge brett m. kavanaugh
the campaign , announced monday , is another sign that the aclu , which describes itself as a nonpartisan organization , has energized its advocacy efforts in the trump era
two days earlier , the groups national board voted to oppose kavanaughs nomination something it has done only three other times in the past century
said faiz shakir , the aclus national political director.
people have funded us , and i think they expect a return.
since trumps election , the aclu said its membership has jumped from 400,000 to 1.84 million
the aclu typically stays neutral about supreme court nominees
it didnt with kavanaugh
the ads , which come as the fbi is investigating sexual assault allegations against kavanaugh , compare the judge to bill clinton and bill cosby , two powerful men who have faced allegations of sexual misconduct
cosby was convicted of sexual assault in april
sen. lindsey o. graham ( r-s.c. ) , who has forcefully defended kavanaugh , has previously rejected a comparison to cosby
the white house slammed the aclu for likening kavanaugh to the disgraced comedian
deputy press secretary raj shah said in a statement
the ads will air this week , beginning monday night , in states represented by senators the aclu feels can be persuaded to oppose the nomination sens
fischer ( r-neb
) , cory gardner ( r-colo. ) , joe manchin iii ( d-w.va. ) , shelley moore capito ( r-w.va. ) , lisa murkowski ( r-alaska ) and dan sullivan ( r-alaska )
dan sullivan didnt watch the kavanaugh hearings live because of an emergency appendectomy
much attention and pressure have been placed on murkowski , who , along with sen. susan collins ( r-maine ) , has been a key swing vote in the senate
but not much has been focused on sullivan , the other senator from alaska , shakir said
manchin is a democrat facing a tough reelection battle in a state that trump won in 2016
fischer , too , is up for reelection
gardner , shakir said , is out of touch with his state
an anonymous letter sent to gardners office claimed kavanaugh assaulted a friend in 1998 while he was drunk
the aclu has long touted a history of nonpartisanship and has said it works to protect the civil liberties of all people regardless of politics
but it also has been considered a bastion of liberalism by conservative critics
some have said its decision to oppose kavanaugh departs from due process
sen. john cornyn ( r-tex )
tweeted sunday , a day after the aclu announced that its national board had taken the rare step of opposing a judicial nominee
mike huckabee , a former arkansas governor , said that by opposing kavanaugh , the aclu is making a statement that uncorroborated allegations are enough to presume a persons guilt
get tombstone to mark death of aclu , huckabee tweeted
kavanaugh would not be confirmed if fbi probe shows he lied to senate committee , jeff flake says
fords allegations had not been corroborated by witnesses she said were at the party
the organization also cited subsequent allegations from other women , an inadequate investigation into those claims and kavanaughs own testimony before the senate judiciary committee last week as among the reasons to doubt his fitness to serve on the supreme court
the fbi is investigating fords allegations , as well as those leveled by a second woman , deborah ramirez , who accused kavanaugh of exposing himself to her during a party while they were first-year students at yale university
the probe is not a criminal one but rather an additional background check on the judge
kavanaugh , 53 , has unequivocally denied sexual misconduct
hes the fourth judge whose supreme court nomination the aclu has opposed in 98 years
the organization opposed president george w. bushs nomination of samuel a. alito jr. in 2006 , raising concerns about his expansive view of executive authority and decisions he had written on race , religion and reproductive rights
in 1987 , it opposed president ronald reagans nomination of robert h. bork , whom the organization saw as more radical than conservative.
and in 1971 , it opposed president richard m. nixons nomination of william h. rehnquist , though it did not take a position when reagan later nominated rehnquist to be chief justice
in 1991 , the aclu remained neutral on the nomination of clarence thomas when he faced sexual harassment allegations
rachel mitchell says her kavanaugh report is what a reasonable prosecutor would say
in kavanaughs case , the aclus opposition is not based on whether his judicial philosophy raises concerns about civil liberties but on sexual assault allegations in the midst of metoo , a movement that has brought the swift downfall of powerful men
the aclus expenditure on political advertisements is not unprecedented
ahead of the august senate primary in arizona , the organization paid for ads attacking the three republican candidates stances on immigration
its leaders also told politico that they expected to spend at least $ 25 million on advocacy efforts in this years midterms
in july , before trump announced his nominee , the aclu spent thousands of dollars in advertisements calling for collins and murkowski , moderate republicans who support abortion rights , to insist that the presidents pick support a womans right to choose
