beijing china reacted with cautious criticism friday to president trumps plan to impose tariffs on imported steel and aluminum , urging the united states to abide by multilateral trade rules and do nothing to damage the fragile global economic recovery
in europe , however , thursdays announcement triggered a sharp backlash , including threats of retaliation
european commission president jean-claude juncker said , according to the reuters news service.
we can not simply put our head in the sand.
china is the worlds dominant steel producer , but experts said the tariff plan would not greatly affect it because the country accounts for only 2 percent of u.s. imports
beijing is not about to start a trade war over the decision , they added , framing it as self-defeating
li , who is also director of the china metallurgical industry planning and research institute , said the tariffs would only make u.s. industries fall further behind globally at a time when china is in its prime.
it is not clear whether the tariffs would affect only certain countries or apply globally
the tariff proposal met with more outrage in europe , particularly in germany , where foreign minister sigmar gabriel called it unfathomable.
although germany exports more steel to the united states than any other european country , last year it accounted for just 3 percent of u.s. steel imports , through september
far more originated in canada , south korea and mexico , countries that also have raised major concerns about the policy
trump gets his tariffs and much of the world plans to strike back
but many european officials see the tariffs as part of broader fears they have about trumps america first agenda , given the blocs long-standing reliance on u.s. partnership
lange and others also worry that the tariffs could be expanded to other fields , such as computers
its a bottomless pit , he said
france also condemned the move
in a strong statement friday , bruno le maire , frances economy minister , said that if a trade war ensues between the united states and the european union , there will be only losers.
top british government officials had no immediate public comment , but a senior representative of britains steel industry warned that the tariffs could have a significant impact.
said richard warren , head of policy at u.k. steel
later friday , reuters reported that the european union is considering imposing duties on u.s. imports worth about $ 3.5 billion if the white house pursues its plan
official confirmed the report , saying , this is broadly the figure we are looking at.
the official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity
trumps move is also expected to trigger legal challenges at the world trade organization by china , the european union , brazil and perhaps others
wei jianguo , a former chinese vice minister of commerce , said the u.s. decision runs counter to wto rules and hurts sino-u.s. relations
wei said , noting that china imports a huge amount of u.s. goods , including boeing planes , and agricultural and it products
but most analysts said the move is more of an irritant to china than anything serious at this stage
lu zhengwei , chief economist at industrial bank in shanghai , said china had already been working to cut overcapacity in its steel industry
anti-dumping duties imposed on china by the obama administration two years ago also had helped cut u.s. imports , experts said
last year , chinas steel exports fell 30 percent , and lu said trumps move came too late to make much of a difference
every day is a new adventure trump upends washington and wall street with shifts on trade , guns
still , beijing is not insensitive to the symbolism of the decision , aware that trumps rhetoric has targeted it and wary of further measures to restrict trade and investment , experts said
however , the result we are expecting is negotiation between both sides.
the trump administration is investigating china over intellectual property rights and technology-transfer policies and is expected to unveil more tariffs or penalties in coming months
congress is also likely to strengthen and broaden controls on chinese investment in the united states
trumps announcement came as president xi jinpings top economic adviser , liu he , was in washington trying to ease trade tensions
hua , the foreign ministry spokeswoman , said the envoy had held constructive consultations with u.s. officials thursday and shared a candid exchange of views
rob carnell , head of asia-pacific research at ing in singapore , said china might join or hide behind other nations and trading blocs such as canada , the european union , japan and south korea in retaliating against the u.s. move
taiwan and brazil are also among those affected by the measure
working through the wto could take a long time , he said , making tit-for-tat retaliation more likely
that would not be good news for the global economy , he said
but ironically , it might not be bad news for china
many will now wonder whether the united states is not a greater threat to the world trading system , said arthur kroeber , managing director of the beijing-based research firm gavekal dragonomics
noack reported from berlin
luna lin , shirley feng , amber ziye wang and liu yang in beijing , james mcauley in paris and quentin aris in brussels contributed to this report
