triumph the insult comic dog is a puppet who became famous in the late 1990s for showing up on late night with conan obrien and threatening to poop on the guests
twenty years of poop jokes later , triumph has become part of the u.s. political fabric
the yugoslavian mountain hound and his camera crew were in texas last week , although the footage didnt air until monday night on the late show with stephen colbert.
an 82-year-old texas woman voted for the first time
then she died
thank you , orourke said with a wide grin
can taylor swifts instagram turn tennessee blue
in this senate candidates wildest dreams
orourke swallowed and wagged a finger in the air.
vote once , he said.
thats , thats the law.
orourkes smile looked quite frozen now
he shook his head.
theres nothing i can say
then it was on to harlingen , where triumph put on a cowboy hat and stuck a cigar in his maw as he forged into a sea of cruz fans
the los angeles times wrote
after years of campaign trail work , triumph first tried to interview cruz in early 2016 while the senator campaigned against donald trump for the republican presidential nomination
he even strapped himself to a drone to chase a campaign bus , but like cruzs race that year , the puppets efforts failed
ted cruz keeps saying that satellites dont show global warming
cruz sheltered for a while in a throng of fans seeking autographed make america great again hats , but he finally acknowledged the dog
hey , welcome to texas , he said
warmly , even
that depends how bad a joke , cruz quipped
the senator laughed , but almost everyone else behind the camera was scowling at the puppet or possibly at comedian robert smigel , who has accompanied triumph on all his outings since the dogs tv debut in 1997
cruz inhaled and put a hand on his chest.
i love the constitution , he said.
and twitter is twitter.
( for the record , cruz did defend his wife when trump suggested she was unattractive during the 2016 primary race
but he soon forgave trump , who never apologized )
cruz looked game to field more questions from the insult dog , but the crowd around him was visibly agitated
a police officer barricaded the puppet from the senator with his arm.
talk with your supporters , not him
a woman yelled at cruz
we can all have a conversation , cruz said gently
ted cruz and wife are shouted out of d.c. restaurant over his support for kavanaugh
thats right
someone laughed off screen
a man beside the senator looked down and wiped his nose
the police officer continued to stare at the puppet
the senator groaned and continued to smile
