the united states and russia escalated a war of words over syria on wednesday , with president trump warning that u.s. airstrikes will be coming despite russias pledge to shoot down american missiles aimed at its ally
the exchange raised the possibility of open military conflict between the old cold war adversaries and marked a turnabout for a u.s. president who had ridiculed his predecessor for allegedly telegraphing military strategy
trump wrote on twitter , referring to missile strikes that have appeared likely since the deaths of more than 40 syrian civilians , including children , over the weekend
trumps tweet was the first explicit u.s. statement that a military response is in the offing , and it apparently took u.s. officials by surprise
the white house later said that a final decision had not yet been made and that all options remained open
by addressing his warning to russia , trump effectively acknowledged that syria could become a proxy battleground
russia is syrian president bashar al-assads strongest military defender
the united states conducts counterterrorism operations in syria and backs some anti-assad rebels
trump wrote , in one of his most direct criticisms of russia
several hours later at the kremlin , russian president vladimir putin told a gathering of new foreign ambassadors that the state of things in the world can not but provoke concern.
u.s. officials stressed that planning for airstrikes has been careful and orderly , and has involved diplomatic and intelligence agencies as well as the pentagon , but said trumps direct threat wednesday was unexpected
trumps description of smart weaponry appeared to flow at least partly from briefings monday and tuesday that included options involving guided missiles , a senior u.s. official said
the official spoke on the condition of anonymity because the u.s. plan is not final
white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders said trumps words were not an announcement of any specific action
asked whether emoting on twitter as he did wednesday complicated the war strategy or posed a national security risk , sanders said , not at all.
earlier this week , trump said his administration was working on a response to the suspected chemical attack , including military options
on monday , he said a decision would come in 24 to 48 hours , a time frame that has now elapsed and been complicated by the advent of an international inspection of the attack area
trumps tweets came after russias ambassador to lebanon was quoted by news outlets tuesday as saying that russia would confront a u.s. strike on syria by shooting down missiles and striking their launchpads or points of origin
kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said russia did not plan to respond in kind to trumps tweeted taunt
the united states has been building a circumstantial case , based largely on videos and photographs , that a chemical attack by syrian forces took place in the rebel-held town of douma near damascus
such a finding of fault would be the justification for a u.s. or allied military response that syria and russia would surely call a violation of international law
the finding would also help british and french leaders justify participating militarily with an american president who is unpopular among their citizens
syria and russia have insisted that no chemical attack occurred and that only the opposition groups they call terrorists possess chemical weapons
defense secretary jim mattis was at the white house on wednesday afternoon for meetings expected to focus on syria
beforehand , he was asked whether he has seen sufficient evidence to blame the assad government for the attack
gen. valery gerasimov , chief of the general staff of the russian armed forces , has said the military would hit back if u.s. airstrikes endangered russian servicemen in syria
peskov said wednesday
the missiles most likely to be used in a u.s. attack would probably be launched from u.s. warships , opening the possibility that the russian diplomat in lebanon was threatening open warfare
two navy destroyers were used to launch more than 50 tomahawk cruise missiles at a syrian air base in april 2017 in response to a nerve-agent attack that trump blamed on assad
the destroyers were underway in the mediterranean sea when the missiles were launched from hundreds of miles away
that position was beyond the range of syrian defenses , but within range of potential russian defenses
the 2017 u.s. assault is probably the best guide for what trump may do now , but he could choose other options
the strike a year ago made good on trumps vow not to let the use of chemical weapons go unpunished , but it failed to deter assad from using them again
experts see hallmarks of nerve gas in syria attack
the national security council , chaired by vice president pence , met wednesday afternoon at the white house to finalize options that could be presented to the president , sanders said
he later wrote that much of the bad blood with russia was the result of an ongoing investigation into russian interference in the 2016 election
he called the investigation fake & corrupt.
during his 2016 campaign , trump regularly attacked president barack obama for previewing u.s. military strategy , revelations that he argued gave the enemy an advantage
in 2013 , he advised against any military intervention in syria , suggesting it was a waste of u.s. energy and money
he also blasted obama for signaling that a strike was imminent
trump wrote on twitter on sept. 1 , 2013
troianovski reported from moscow
philip rucker in washington and louisa loveluck in istanbul contributed to this report
